# Stock-Analysis
# Module-1

Includes working with pandas, which is used in processing and analysing data.Processing contains cleaning and organizing.Cleaning includes removing unknown values from the data or replacing unknown values with values which make sense e.g. mean,median,mode.On the other hand analysing the data could include finding out the trend of a stock price, e.g. how the stock price changes with respect to the Nifty 50 basket of stocks or S & P 500.Firstly,importing the dataset and then storing into the dataframe and then performing some functions like tail(),head() immensely useful for exploration.Then we analysed the data types and converted the date into the datetime64(ns) for performing operations based on the date. In this finally we calculated VWAP (Volume weighted average price) of the stock. ( VWAP = sum(price*volume)/sum(volume) ) [https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/vwap.asp]. Add a column 'Day_Perc_Change' where the values are the daily change in percentages i.e. the percentage change between 2 consecutive day's closing prices. Add another column 'Trend' whose values are based on conditions.

# Module-2

Includes working with Data visualization and Technical Analysis, as we all knew that 'A picture speaks a thousand words'. Absolutely no one goes through the millions of rows of numbers, we always prefer the data in a plotted form to draw better inferences. This module would cover the plotting, basic technical indicators and our own customisation, and making our own trade calls!.We plot the dataframe in order to get the general outlook of the stock.Then by plotting the stem plot we analyze the relation between volume and daily percentage change.We plotted a pie chart for all the 'Trend' to know about relative frequency of each trend.We next want to analyse how the behaviour of different stocks are how they are correlated [https://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/correlation.asp]. Volatility is carried out.Volatility is the change in variance in the returns of a stock over a specific period of time[https://www.investopedia.com/terms/v/volatility.asp].The calculation of volatility lead to useful indicator known as beta.Next we use simple moving averages for trade calls which is the most widely used technical indicators. Bollinger band [https://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bollingerbands.asp] are plotted which are extremely reliable, with a 95% accuracy at 2 standard deviations.

# Module-3

Includes working with Fundamental analysis using Regression,This module would introduce us to the Regression related inferences to be drawn from the data.Regression is basically a statistical approach to find the relationship between variables. In machine learning, this is used to predict the outcome of an event based on the relationship between variables obtained from the data-set. More often than not, we utilize linear regression to come up with an ideal inference.We use the regression model to predict the gold prices. CAPM(Capital Asset Pricing Model) attempts to price securities by examining the relationship that exists between expected returns and risk.CAPM Analysis and Beta Calculation using regression.The Beta of an asset is a measure of the sensitivity of its returns relative to a market benchmark (usually a market index). How sensitive/insensitive is the returns of an asset to the overall market returns (usually a market index like S&P 500 index). What happens when the market jumps, does the returns of the asset jump accordingly or jump somehow. So in this case beta is generally the coefficient of linear regression model.

# Module-4

Includes working with Trade Call Prediction using Classification and utilize our skills to predict on basis of classification. The classification model is trained on the bollinger columns and the stock price as inputs and 'Calls' as output and we check the accuracy on a test set. We use many classifier models e.g. Logistic Regression,KNN classifier,SVM,Naive Bayes,Random forest Classifier and compare the accuracy for each and every classifier.

# Module-5

Includes working with Modern Portfolio Theory, We’ll be looking at investment portfolio optimization with python, the fundamental concept of diversification and the creation of an efficient frontier that can be used by investors to choose specific mixes of assets based on investment goals; that is, the trade off between their desired level of portfolio return vs their desired level of portfolio risk.Modern Portfolio Theory suggests that it is possible to construct an "efficient frontier" of optimal portfolios, offering the maximum possible expected return for a given level of risk. It suggests that it is not enough to look at the expected risk and return of one particular stock. By investing in more than one stock, an investor can reap the benefits of diversification, particularly a reduction in the riskiness of the portfolio.

# Module-6

Includes working with Clustering for Diversification analysis,Clustering is a method of unsupervised learning and is a common technique for statistical data analysis used in many fields.Clustering is a Machine Learning technique that involves the grouping of data points. Given a set of data points, we can use a clustering algorithm to classify each data point into a specific group. In theory, data points that are in the same group should have similar properties and/or features, while data points in different groups should have highly dissimilar properties and/or features.In financial Markets, Cluster analysis is a technique used to group sets of objects that share similar characteristics.We create a data frame with the closing prices of 30 different stocks.Then we calculate average annual percentage return and volatility of all 30 stocks over a theoretical one year period.Next we cluster the 30 stocks according to their mean annual Volatilities and Returns using K-means clustering. Identify the optimum number of clusters using the Elbow curve method and finally we prepare a separate Data frame to show which stocks belong to the same cluster.
